The main idea of Random Forest is combining the concept of bagging and random feature subsampling on decision trees.
Both of these methods reduces variance without increasing the bias.

Random Forest goes through these four steps:

1. Bootstrap subsampling
First, assume we create B different trees model. For each tree, we draw bootstrap sample of size N with replacement from the training data.
Each sample will contain approximately 63.2% unique observations and the other 36.8% are called out-of-bag (OOB).

Contribution:
With B different training sets, each tree sees a different data distribution causing trees to make different errors and learn different aspects of the data.
When predictions from these different trees are averaged, the variance of the ensemble will be reduced.

2. Random feature subsampling
At each split, m features are selected at random out of the p features. 
Usually for classification problems m = floor(sqrt(p)), and m = floor(p/3) for regression problems.
Then only the best split among these m features is used.

Contribution:
This step decorrelates the trees. 
If certain features are very strong, pure bagging will just produce correlated trees that use those feature at the top splits which causes them to be highly correlated.
The problem with this is that averaging correlated tree will not reduce variance even when averaged.
By forcing random subsets of features to be used, trees become decorrelated and only then averaging them will yield in a lower variance.

3. Grow full unpruned trees
Each tree is grown to full depth without pruning, until each leaf contains the minimum number of node (e.g. 1 observation per leaf).

Contribution: 
Deep trees have low bias but high variance.
Since we know that the final ensemble will average these decorrelated trees, the averaging will handle the variance reduction.
Therefore, we want each tree to be as accurate as possible, meaning low bias.
Hence, the reason we grow each tree to be as deep and as accurate as possible.
Another important thing to note is that, the bias of Random Forest is equal to the individual tree bias.
So, by having deep individual trees with low bias will ensure that the Random Forest also has a low bias.

4. Aggregate predictions
For regression problems, we average the predictions of all B trees. For classification problems, we use the the predicted labels of all B trees and do a majority voting.

Contribution:
Averaging reduces variance without changing bias for unbiased estimators.
The ensemble variance of B correlated trees with pairwise correlation rho and individual variance sigma^2 is given by:
Var(average) = rho * sigma^2 + (1 - rho) / B * sigma^2
As B approaches infinity, the variance converges to rho * sigma^2.
Random feature subsampling reduces rho by decorrelating trees, reducing the irreducible floor of rho sigma^2 as well as reducing the ensemble variance.

Additional things about Random Forest:

OOB error estimation:
For each individual tree, there is about 36.8% of observations that is considered OOB.
These observations are not part of the training data and can be used to do a CV-like generalization error.
Then averaging these OOB predictions will give us the OOB error that is approximately the same as Leave one out CV error without extra computation.

Variable importance:
There are two main methods to measure this. First, the Gini importance which is the sum of impurity decrease for all splits on a specific feature j across all trees.
Second, permutation importance which by permuting a specific variable j in OOB data, record the increase in OOB error. Large increase means the feature has a high importance. 
Permutation importance is more reliable because it directly measures prediction degradation.